# Week 14 Reflection

## Reflect 14: What does it mean to be human in the age of AI?
 In order to be human in the age of AI, one must look toward the nuances. To take from the idea of Stochastic Parrots, the field of artificial intelligence has already become oversaturated with an influx of models that are exclusively made to compete with another. As a result, AI models are churned out without any regard to environmental and ethical concerns that often follow this model. On top of this, AI doesn’t “feel” emotions as humans do. It statistically predicts what to say next in order to give an output that it feels is “correct.” We saw this through our make where we constructed an AI character; it realistically takes an infinite number of tries to make an AI model that would accurately represent the character in which we were trying to make. Essentially, the AI can’t understand the nuances behind certain people because it can only use a probability to see what might come next.

 On top of this, AI can’t have “emotional imperfections.” While it can replicate speech and hallucinate materials, it falls short on the things that make people “human.” AI essentially loses the “randomness” of human conversation. Because of this, I would say that AI falls into a linear thinking perspective. I think of it in the same way that Sousanis’s Unflattening pictures how modern culture has driven people into only thinking two-dimensionally.  With AI, however, I think this can go both ways. Because AI tends to think very linearly, when humans over rely on the use of AI, it causes people to think linearly.

 However, there can still be humanity found within AI. When used properly as a tool, it can be used as something to enhance the ways in which we think and learn. AI, although not a proper representation of all of humanity, does a good job of representing its source material when it is properly constructed by people that have certain things in mind. When we look at ethics or topics like Data Feminism, we can see that when AI is placed in hands that want to accurately represent the human experience through its programming by providing it proper and fair source material, it can represent the “humanity” that has been programmed into it.

As a result, I believe that in order to being “human” in the world of AI means that you can critically think about the information placed in front of you in order to evaluate the positives and negatives about AI and using that information as a backboard to use AI as a tool rather than a solution.
